## Event listeners

Before stepping into specific syntax how we can apply events on elements let's introduce what is considered as event.

JavaScript code in the browser uses an event-driven programming pattern. What this means is that when a specific DOM event happens in the browser, a piece of code will be executed as a response to that action, so DOM events are signals exposed by the browser that you can use to run a piece of JavaScript code. These DOM events occur when the user interacts with the application we've created, such as clicking a button or typing letters into an input field.

#### How we apply action on events in JS

- Apply event directly on HTML element

```html
<button onclick="alert('Hello World')">Click Me</button>
```

This solution is less than ideal because we’re cluttering our HTML with JavaScript. Also, we can only set one “onclick” property per DOM element, so we’re unable to run multiple separate functions in response to a click event using this method.

- Single event handler

```html
<button id="btn">Click Me</button>
```

```javascript
const btn = document.querySelector("#btn");
btn.onclick = () => alert("Hello World");
```

We’ve moved the JS out of the HTML and into a JS file, but we still have the problem that a DOM element can only have one “onclick” property.

- [`AddEventListener()`] (https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/EventTarget/addEventListener)
-

```html
<button id="btn">Click Me Too</button>
```

```javascript
const btn = document.querySelector("#btn");
btn.addEventListener("click", () => {
  alert("Hello World");
});
```

Now, we allow us to use multiple event listeners if the need arises. This method is much more flexible and powerful, though it is a bit more complex to set up.

#### Accesing event object

With all three methods, we can access more information about the event by passing a parameter to the function that we are calling.

```javascript
btn.addEventListener("click", function (e) {
  console.log(e);
});
```

So we can, for example, prevent default form submitting behaviour:

```javascript
form.addEventListener("submit", function (e) {
  e.preventDefault();
});
```

Or acces the current value of input field while typing:

```javascript
inputField.addEventListener("input", function (event) {
  console.log(event.target.value);
});
```
